Allright i know that Taint is likely going to be changed in the future, however i'd like to put a few suggestion i've had eve since seing the new ''identity'' Taint has in TCII/TC6.
First of all, my suggestions fall mainly into the concept of ''Taint as an alien ecosystem leaking into our world'' unlike how iit originally was a physical manifestation of Flux.

Point 1:Have Taint be a true menace to the world.
Not just the player's corner of it, so fa various tests have shown how Taint quite literally ''kills itself'' after a while as since it needs Flux to expand -and- maintain itself, the more it expands, the quicker it stats to recede towards the seeds leaving large patches of untaintd land -within- tainted areas and makes the seeds the only souce of Taint in the first place, which in turn makes it extremely easy to deal with it.
So, how to do this?
My idea was to have Taint ''self-sustain'' itself as it consumes the world, basically have additional Tainted blocks or entities that do so, my main idea was to have something aking to an ''Organic flux diffuser'' like some sort of Entity (like a different type of seed) or a block that consumes Vis and produces Flux, like trees consume C02 to produce 02, effectively ''breathing'' and terraforming the evironment for tainted lifeforms.
This not only would make Taint actually menacing and dangerous, but also add a sense of ''danger'' as the mroe it grows, the more of these ''flux diffuser'' would spawn and this translates in more taint and especially less vis.

Point 2:Give Taint additional interactions with the environment.
Greatwood and Silverwood are confirmed to be ''magically sensitive'' like many other blocks, knowing this why Greatwood and Silverwood become everyday Taintwood? Shouldn't Silverwood at least, a plant that seems to produce Vis, become somewhat of a rare special case in which the Tainted Silverwood produces flux? same for Greatwood who seems to be able to ''absorb magical energy'' you should be abl to use Greatwood to ceate stuff like ''flux accumulators'' to clean the environmnt, maybe using the Gratwood long themselves, this would add more interactivity with the mod while also giving a sense of ''i must protect this tree or stuff goes worse''.
Additionally, considering how there's now no more ''tainted land'' biome the water stays crystal blue even in deeply infected zones, unless this goes back to how TC2 was (where water was harmful to taint) i'd say there should be something ''taint'' for water too, maybe algae or even somkind of covering over th water, like ''fluxed water'' that isn't however concentrate enough to produce Thaumic slimes, same for ice, i would expect it to be somewhat changed into somekind of crystalline fluxed block but these are mainly minor stuff.
However something i'd like to see come back is Flux crystals diffusing Flux

Point 3:Make Taint more subtle.
So far, Taint is extremely easy to spot and fight early on, it's quite literally a giant purple dong that spews purple, can't get more glaring than that, i believe it should be more subtle and hard to notice because otherwise you can go though TC without having to ''deal'' with it at all beside you voluntarily opening rifts.
So far i had in mind a few things.
1: Mobs walking near a rift should have a %chance to get infested by a tainted crawler that comes out when they die, said mobs would have something unusual than their normal variants (purple eyes, purple streaks, odd sounds)they're not separate entities but more like a ''potion effect'' these mobs would generally run away from the player
2: instead of seeds, Fibrous taint should spawn a certain radius around the rift; Taint Seeds seem too ''advanced'' to just pop in untainted land, rather than the source, i'd see them better as the ''strengthening expansion'' of the Taint
3: Naturally spawning high-flux areas, or just naturally spawning rifts; one thing i really miss from TC4/TC5 is exploring the world and suddenly hearing the squishy squashy noise of a naturally grown Tainted land, it felt exciting, discovring such an alienous place all on it's own slowly consuming it's surroundings, and i think that with the seeds now and the rift, such discovery would be truly interesting and exciting to make, not to mention the chance of meeting Taint without being able to immediately kill it.

Point 4: More ''Taintspawn''.
Due to the removal of separate entities, i feel like Taint neds more ''only-taint'' creatures, especially considering how now it's an ecosystem, the seeds and all, so besides Taintacles i would also expect to see stuff like ranged versions of the same, biological traps, flying mobs besides the Taintswarm etc etc.
I made a few sketched concepts but they're honestly quite awful due to my poor drawing skills, i'll post them if someone wants to see tho.
